Now we'll take a look at the IAM policy types that are available at AWS,
and we start off with a managed policy.
A managed policy, the backend written in JSON and can be applied to the user,
to the group, or to the role itself.
Now a managed policy, it's created by AWS, and you can decide to use it.
We also have inline policies,
again this policy written in JSON could be for a user,
a group, and/or a role.
The distinct difference is that this policy,
there's a copy of it for whatever principle that you select and when
that principle is removed then the policy is discarded.
We also can have a couple other ways of managing policies,
policies are typically defined as hey there's two types,
managed and custom,
but I want to break them up more on how you can use some of
the resources to get you thinking about how you can use
policies best in your company.
So with tag-based we can define, again written in JSON,
a project and that project, say Project 203,
can have a tag on it and that tag actually defines who
can actually access that project.
Remember when I create something in AWS,
I usually have the option to create one or more
tags describing what I'm creating, so these tags can be very powerful.
The last example would be resource-based where,
again, written in JSON and defined to the actual resource.
Another way of defining this would be the role-based policy.
But I can also think of this as resource-based,
if it gives me clarity as to how I'm controlling access to maybe a bucket
or to maybe a particular virtual machine or instance.
So let's take these policies and expand them out a bit, shall we?
So first of all, managed policy can be attached to multiple users,
groups, and roles.
This policy, you can think of it as you've created it,
it's in your library, linked to your account,
and you can use these policies as you see fit.
Each policy is going to have its own ARN because we are
defining a resource that we want to control.
The managed policy is also defined as applied to identities,
again the identity or the identification,
oh I'm this user, I am this group, I am this role.
The managed policies, first created and maintained by AWS.
Think of it like a master list of possibilities of control of
the AWS resources deployed by the customer.
They're read-only and they're designed for the most common use
cases and job functions and over time there's more and more
example policies that you can deploy.
Example, I want to set up administrator access,
I don't want to write that from scratch,
I want a policy to control security auditing,
I want a policy that controls read-only access to S3 buckets,
I want a policy that defines a level, i.
e.
a power user in my account.
So common scenarios.
Customer managed policies: created and managed by the customer,
written by engineers at AWS,
I choose which policies to take on and manage for my account.
Now how many policies can I have?
Up to 10 managed policies per user group or role.
Now let's take a look at the inline policy.
So with the inline policy,
what we have here is a policy that is said to be linked directly,
i.
e.
one-to-one, with a principle,
a selected user or group or role that you want to
manage specifically one-to-one.
So if the principle is deleted, the policy is revoked,
it's not applied to the principle because the principle is gone.
The policy could still be in your account,
but the inline policy, once created by the customer is managed by the customer,
so a copy of that policy applied to principle and they're said
to be embedded in the selected principle,
so the copy of the policy is not shared with anybody else,
so for example it's not like applying a policy to a group where it
would be shared among the users of that group.
So the number one reason for an inline policy is to manage and
maintain that one-to-one relationship between the policy and the
selected principle and you don't want any mix ups.
Now let's take a look at tag-based policy.
Well what's a tag?
Remember if I create something in AWS, I can typically add many tags,
in most cases up to 50 tags, describing what I'm creating.
So tag-based access control restricts permissions based on the tag value.
Maybe I want certain users or groups of users to be able to detach
volumes from specific EC2 instances with the tag of Dev A.
So I have that control through something that I describe.
So I can enforce permissions when any new resources are
created and assigned the same tag.
So it's quite a handy option.
So tag-based access control is supported for EC2,
VPC, Elastic Block Storage, Relational Database Services,
the Workflow Service, and Data Pipeline,
and more to come in the future I'm sure.
Another example,
I want to assign permissions to Susan granting her permission to
perform any actions on all resources tagged with Dev A,
such as instances and storage resources,
so something to think about when you're describing
your instances and resources at AWS.
Now let's take a look at policies that are directly attached to a
resource and these can include a number of services in AWS.
So when we're looking at a resource policy,
they're attached directly to a resource,
an AWS resource, and policies for resources are supported by an S3 Bucket,
Glacier Vaults,
which probably makes sense since that's an extension of the S3 ecosystem,
SNS Topics, and SQS Queues.
So we've got a couple of areas where I can define a resource policy,
directly applying them to a bucket.
So using a resource policy, again, I've got that granular control,
I want to control access to a specific resource,
and S3 is a pretty big deal at Amazon,
that's ultimately where all storage ends up going,
so these can be a pretty handy option to have in your back pocket.
When I'm looking at the attachment of the policy to
distinguish between resource and users, let's just do a bit of a comparison,
that if it's user-based I might have a DevGroup1 and
they need access to a resource, a queue service or a bucket,
and I'll define the permissions access to that
resource for the user-based policy, it's read,
write, list in this case, and for the resource for the queue service it is list.
In this case,
this policy is attached either to the IAM user or
to the group if it's user-based.
What does a specific entity have access to?
Well we're talking about DevGroup1,
they have these resources that they need access to and the
policy is attached to the user or group,
in this case group.
If I'm looking at resource-based, in this case we have an S3 Bucket,
on the bucket itself I'm defining John read,
list, write, Susan read.
In this case it's attached to the resource.
Who can access the particular resource?
In this case, John and Sue can access the S3 Bucket.
So we've looked at the policies,
we've looked at the fact of how we can attach the policies,
we've looked at a couple of examples.
Let's look at the flow of how the policy is approved or not.
So when we look at policy enforcement for Susan,
Susan wants access to a resource, so first of all,
first level is well deny until we check you out.
So we'll retrieve the policies and we'll look at the policies and
evaluate the policies and through that evaluation process,
the first thing that is checked is the explicit deny,
is there is an explicit deny?
Yes.
Well then explicit deny.
No there's not an explicit deny, okay let's continue.
So continuing from Susan's no, the next stage is is there an explicit allow?
Yes there is, she will be allowed.
No there isn't, she'll be denied.
Amazon S3 supports policies for both IAM users and for resources.
And the S3 resource policies are called bucket policies. We're applying them directly to the bucket itself.